I’m a big fan of Christmas carols. Give me some old white dude with vibrato-for-days singing about Jesus and being home for Christmas and I’m a happy camper. It doesn’t even matter that I’m an atheist--nostalgia wins all. It always does. That’s the magic of growing up listening to Dean Martin and Nat King Cole and Bing Crosby. 

But then “Little Drummer Boy” comes on. And I don’t care what version it is, it makes me angry. It breaks me out of my nice little bit of Christmas jollying--not a euphemism for anything, don’t worry--and as if on cue, reality is coldwater splashed across my brain.  Instead of imagining that I’m in Hawaii absently meditating “maliki maka” with Bing on an island getaway, I’m suddenly sitting in my living room looking for a window to throw the little drummer boy out of. 

It’s such a cute little ditty, too. Blah blah blah, puh rum puh puh pum. Or something like that. Me and my drum. It was one of my mom’s favorite carols, but that’s not what drives me to distraction about it. It’s because it’s about a drummer. And he’s poor. And if you’ve ever been in a band--the way I have--you’d know that that’s already a redundant statement. Do you know a drummer joke? Sure you do. And if you don’t, you know someone that does.

For example:
What’s the difference between a drummer and a pizza? A pizza can feed a family of four. 

What do you call a drummer without a girlfriend? Homeless. 

And it’s definitely on-brand for a drummer to play a solo without really asking permission. And I know! It says so right in the song, “Mary nods”. Nods to a drum solo. Mary had no idea what in the hell she was agreeing to. It might as well have been a child signing mortgage papers for Christ’s sake (irony+1). Whoo. 

But maybe what they meant was that Mary was too polite to be like, “No, fuck off with your drum, you little shit,” (even though she definitely should have). And it’s so like a drummer, just with the damned arrogance and audacity, to bust into a solo in the middle of a field, surrounded by animals and wise men and some sick little baby still writhing with the stench of birth near a few stacks of hay--and then expect everyone to be so jazzed about it! Ooooh, ahhhh, look at the drummer and his sticks and his cylinders with covers that make noise! I’m sure glad he’s here to hit things for a while! 

Have you ever gone to a concert and heard someone say, “Man, I could really go for a drum solo right now”? No, you definitely have not. I mean, not unless you were seeing Rush and Neil Peart was still alive. In that literal ONE circumstance, yes. But anywhere else, ever in history, definitely no. 

I don’t care if the little drummer boy was sitting around feeling sorry for himself for not having any money, he should have thought about that before bringing a goddamn drum to a manger. They would have preferred if he’d brought a recorder and badly whistled out “Mary Had a Little Lamb” like a 3rd-grade neophyte rather than listen to his stupid drum solo. At least that would have had a melody, some rhyme or reason to it; everyone wouldn’t have had to nod and stare at one another in that “Oh God, when is this going to end?” grimace slash smile that we all do when we’re witnessing a room of people and their will to live is crashing and burning into a smoldering heap on the floor.

In conclusion, Merry Christmas.