On November 17th, 2012, José Salvador Alvarenga and Ezequiel Córdoba, two fishermen, set out in a twenty-foot fiberglass boat from a small fishing village of Costa Azul on the coast of Mexico. Their goal? To catch some fish and make some money for their families and be home within thirty or so hours. To their dismay and surprise, their boat was hit by a storm within hours of losing sight of land; their motor and radio died, they had no oars or other way to make their way to any landmass nearby. They were very quickly lost at sea. 

<br/><br/>

Search and rescue attempts began earnestly a day or two later, but after two weeks and no sign of wreckage or any trace of the boat, both fishermen were declared dead. Their families and friends and colleagues mourned their loss. Stolid funerals and ceremonies were had in their honor. And in most circumstances, that would be the end of the story. 

<br/><br/>

On January 30th, 2014, 5500 miles from where his journey began, José Salvador Alvarenga washed ashore on Ebon Atoll in the Marshall Islands. Alive. Certainly, worse for the wear and beaten all to hell, starving, dehydrated, in poor health, but alive nonetheless. He’d been lost at sea for 438 days. 

<br/><br/>

Over the last few weeks, I’ve watched several different versions of “A Christmas Carol” by Charles Dickens. I’m a big fan of the Muppet’s version, truth be told, but each version has its own carefully hewn sense of redemption. But the general plot points are the same in each, in that an old acquaintance warns Scrooge that he will be visited by three ghosts and that each would have a lesson to teach him.    

<br/><br/>

It makes sense that it’d take three different lessons; as humans, we’re just not great at understanding something unless we’ve seen it--and in most cases, we have to see the precursor and the aftermath to understand that point A really does connect to point B. We’re experiential creatures, which is not only a strength but also one of our most devastating weaknesses. 

<br/><br/>

In the morning, old Ebenezer wakes on Christmas day, having lived through the reviled fires of hell for a moment that almost certainly seemed like forever; with first opened eyes still clutching at his bed curtains and clinging for the only thing left of his life he realizes he is still alive; and what’s more, he is forever illuminated by his one night of darkness. 

<br/><br/>

I imagine that he must have felt like Lazurus that day; as if the entirety of creation must have been moved, pressed down upon him like the breath of God, and that despite any reservations or contrary feelings he had about his existence prior, he was at least bright enough to understand that maybe it wasn’t all about him anymore. 

<br/><br/>

José Salvador Alvarenga spent at least one Christmas night out beneath the stars of the Pacific Ocean. He spent at least one of his birthdays lost and as alone as any human can be. He missed any number of anniversaries and birthdays and all the background living that exists between the start of any year and the completion of it. José lived 438 days away from everything he knew, eating raw fish and drinking rainwater in his efforts to live just one more day.  

<br/><br/>

When he was eventually delivered from the bosom of the Pacific, I imagine he felt the same as Ebenezer and Lazarus; how he must have wept and clawed at the sand and the rocks and the feeling of overwhelming relief that his ordeal was finally, mercifully, dutifully over. 

<br/><br/>

2020 will forever be known as the lost year, my friends. We have endured and held tight to our bed curtains and stood fast upon our fiberglass boats and scanned frantically for land and have come up short again and again. And if there’s anything I’ve learned during this lost year, it’s that we endure as well or as badly as we choose. We either put a single, careful, pained foot forward and hope for the best, or we bemoan our existence and get pulled beneath the waves. 

<br/><br/>

My uncle died this year just before Thanksgiving. I went on a road trip shortly thereafter in order to be lost with him; not so much to be found as some people believe, but to be lost somewhere in the ethereal space of existence and whatever comes next. I slept beneath the stars in the desert and spoke with him while staring deep into my campfire each night. I wrote and scanned the heavens for signs and whispers and I found what I was looking for and lost what I was hoping to leave behind. 

<br/><br/>

There’s something to be said for resurrection, even if we’re pulled into the sepulcher gloom. Our struggle and the frightening reality and consequence of this year are far from over; we have not yet been delivered from the waters to solid land, but I have hope that a chance for redemption exists for each of us. That we can be at once lost and found and amazed and confused and entirely in awe of the things around us. 

<br/><br/>

I hope this Christmas letter finds you and your loved ones well. That from this point onward, we are resurrected and redeemed from within the hideous gloom of this year; that we are in awe for our lives. 

<br/><br/>

What a wonderful gift that would be to ourselves. 

<br/><br/>

Love,
Andrew