The man next to me is picking his nose. Incessantly. If he were digging for gold, he'd have at least made a substantial dent in the Earth's crust, and perhaps even reached the mantle by now. I try not to pay attention to the man's obsession with whatever is buried somewhere deep inside of his sinus cavity, but it's hard not to be distracted by it. 

<br/><br/>

To my right, opposite of gold digger man, is a woman who absolutely cannot put down her phone. Even though she's talking to the people around her, she doesn't even glance away from the tiny screen in her hands. Her eyes don't even flick away from the glowing light that continues to hold most of the world hostage. I am tempted to ask her to blink SOS if she needs rescued, but decide that sometimes extracting a willing hostage is dangerous and I leave her be. 

<br/><br/>

I sigh. 

<br/><br/>

Soon, the lights dim and some weak, 40s-business-man-walking-on-stage music plays and a cavalcade of CEOs and CTOs begin to grace the podium of misery. And they talk endlessly about all the wonderful things that AI is about to do <b>for the world</b>. But in corporate speak, we all know that they really mean they're working really hard to pad their revenue streams and fuck whomever they can to posture better in all their various world markets. 

<br/><br/>

Eventually, Sam Altman is on the screen talking up the partnership between Microsoft and OpenAI. He's apparently fine with playing along with the Microsoft paint-by-numbers pile of horseshit idealism, because eventually he'll be satisfied by fucking over most the rest of the world on his own terms. He's not worried about his job being outsourced because, somehow, we've all collectively decided that assholes are smart. That's basically the only reason why people like Sam Altman and Elon Musk and Steve Jobs and literally every CEO you can think of hasn't been shot into the sun: they're assholes. And people associate assholes with smart. 

<br/><br/>

And our cognitive dissonance is real when it comes to CEOs. Even if you just look at the numbers, most CEOs, the famous ones, merely come in to a company, pump the stock price, and dick off with a golden parachute and a sexual harassment suit following at their heels.  But they don't make their companies better. In fact, by almost every metric, they make them worse. 

<br/><br/>

And CEOs are not actually hardworking. They're born into wealth and not poverty and they're provided twenty-three screw-ups to get the right business model so that they can fleece as many humans as possible. But smart? Nah. Assholes. 

<br/><br/>

Someone comes into the room while the presentation is ongoing, and screams, "Free Palestine!". I can feel and hear the rage in his voice, and I casually wonder if maybe we're about to be shot or blown up. But security corrals the rabblerouser, dragging him from the room while he kicks and screams, and all the nerds in the room continue to gawk at the screens. Listening to mindless droning of Microsoft's CEO talking to Elon about Sam and how AI is the future and how much Microsoft and everyone is going to change the world. 

<br/><br/>

When Elon's oversized, slightly bulbous face graces the screen, there's a small but collective groan from the crowd. The DOGE twat has been spending the last few months dismantling the federal government, and then talks on screen about the great advances he's providing to the world. He's an asshole, you see? And everyone takes him at his word. It's easier to believe someone that's confidently stupid, and if ever there was a dictionary definition, Elon would be it. 

<br/><br/>

I don't mean to be angry about all of this. I'm sure there are some fine people in Microsoft and OpenAI and SpaceX and X that really love their jobs and feel--or at least hope--they're making the world a better place. 

<br/><br/>

It would be useful if they realized that they aren't, though. They're helping to actively dismantle it. 
<br/><br/>

<div class="optimist">
Sorry, no optimism to be had today. The supposed technology leaders can suck my asshole.
</div>