Grief is funny. Not ha-ha funny, but funny like, "Huh, I didn't notice that weird mole on my nose."

<br/><br/>

My first real introduction to grief was in 1999 when my mom died of colon cancer at the age of thirty-six. When you're stuck in the wheelhouse of grief, just within the first year or two of the event, you don't even really understand what's happening to you. 

<br/><br/>

Everything suddenly takes <b>work</b>. And thought. It's not just about going to the store. It's getting on pants and finding your keys and finding a parking space and opening the car door and stepping out and walking into the store and finding each item and going to the register and making small talk while dying inside and then walking back to the car and getting in and on and on and on. The effort to be alive suddenly triples. 

<br/><br/>

And of course, the grief softens from there. It gets a bit easier. I wouldn't say it ever gets easy, but after a few years it doesn't feel like you're being suffocated anymore. And sure, when you hit the five year anniversary and the ten year anniversary, you grieve because you realize an actual big chunk of time has passed since you saw the person. But mostly, the edge is softened and you are relieved of the cutting into your skin. Most of the time. 

<br/><br/>

But now that I'm old. Or at least, oldish, the grief has changed. I'm twenty-six years out from the day she died, and now I am substantially older than she was when she died. I feel I have stepped off a path, and what's more, the time has become so long that it hurts in a new and weird way. Because she's been gone so long now, almost as long as she was alive, that I can feel the weight of that loss pressing in on me even harder than the previous decade or so. 

<br/><br/>

I don't get grief. I guess I'll never truly understand it. Today was the 26th anniversary of her death, and I can feel it pressing in on me again. It feels suffocating. I'm curious, morbidly so, to see how it changes again in a few short years. 